W-11570724: OAuth 2.0 docs (Veeva + General) (#2052)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: connectors-home/modules/ROOT/pages/introduction/intro-config-oauth2.adoc

= Configuring OAuth 2.0 for Connectors

Many services enable you to use an OAuth 2.0 authentication scheme for increased security when interacting with their APIs. Many connectors support configuring a standard OAuth 2.0 setup.

== Prerequisites

To configure OAuth 2.0 for a connector, you must have access to the following:

* OAuth provider (Okta, Azure AD, Google, PingFederate, and so on)
* Anypoint Studio

> * Any connector that supports OAuth 2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> == How to Configure OAuth 2.0 For a Connector

Author: This is not really a "how to configure" section but just "how it works" section. I wanted to provide the user with high level understanding of what's actually happening when they use OAuth2 because the concept is not obvious to non-technical people. 🤔 If we want to avoid a title like "how it works" then maybe "OAuth 2.0 Flow overview" would be more appropriate.

Also if you think this isn't the appropriate place for it. I think we can also move it bellow the "OAuth 2.0 Configuration Fields" or even completely at the end. We could also drop it completely, it's not vital, but I wanted to explain to people what they should expect, especially since this becomes even more convoluted once CloudHub is involved in to second doc.

Essentially this section just describes [this image of the OAuth 2.0 flow](https://developers.google.com/static/identity/protocols/oauth2/images/flows/authorization-code.png).

What do you think @sathya0 ?

Reviewer 2: Great point @Hazarth! I agree with you. I changed the docs to match your feedback.

Here are the configuration fields typically available for OAuth 2.0 for connectors:

*OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code:*

[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Consumer Key | String | OAuth consumer key, as registered with the service provider. | | X
| Consumer Secret | String | OAuth consumer secret, as registered with the service provider. | | X
| Authorization URL | String | URL of the service provider's authorization endpoint in which the user is redirected to provide their user credentials. This URL typically ends with `/authorize`. | | X
| Access Token Url | String | URL of the service provider's access token endpoint in which the application automatically exchanges an authorization code for an access token. | | X
| Scopes | String | Space-delimited list of OAuth scopes to request during the OAuth dance. This value defaults to the scopes in the annotation. | `offline_access` |

> | Resource Owner ID | String | ID of the owner's user or account authorizing the connector to access their resources. | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Resource Owner ID | String | ID of the resource owner's account that authorizes the connector to access their resources. | |
```

|===

*OAuth 2.0 Callback Configuration:*

[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required

> | Callback Path | String | Path on your server in which the user's browser redirects to when authorization is successful with the OAuth provider. The callback path is typically `/callback`. This configuration uses your *HTTP Listener* setup to build the callback path, for example, `\http://0.0.0.0:{port}/callback`. | | X

Reviewer: This is a tough first sentence. Maybe we can talk this one out. 

Server path to which the user's browser is redirected after the user (or is it the app?) successfully authenticates to the OAuth provider.

Reviewer: Saying "your server" doesn't sound quite right. Whose server is this - the connector's server, the user's server, or the OAuth provider's server?

> | Authorize Path | String | Path on your server in which the user begins the OAuth dance. The authorize path is typically `/authorize`. | | X

Reviewer: Server path where the user begins the OAuth dance???

| External Callback Url | String | Full, publicly accessible URL on your server in which the user's browser is redirected to when authorization is successful with the OAuth provider. This field enables you to override the *Callback path* field, for example, `\http://my.server.com/callback`. | |
|===

== OAuth 2.0 Flow Overview

Anypoint Connectors use the Authorization Code Grant flow for their OAuth 2.0 dance. The following steps show a typical flow for configuring OAuth 2.0 for a connector:

. In your browser, navigate to the path specified in the *Authorize Path* field to begin the OAuth dance. For example, if you are running the connector on `localhost` and your path is set to `/authorize` with port `8080`, navigate to `\http://localhost:8080/authorize`.

> . Provide values for *Authorization URL*, *Scopes*, *Resource Owner ID*, and *Callback Path*. The following conditions must be true for the OAuth provider to accept the authorization request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Provide values for the *Authorization URL*, *Scopes*, *Resource Owner ID*, and *Callback Path* fields. The following conditions must be true for the OAuth provider to accept the authorization request:
```

+

> * The *Authorization URL* must be reachable from the user's browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The *Authorization URL* is reachable from the user's browser.
```

* The provided scopes for *Scopes* are supported.

> * The *Resource Owner ID* (if provided) must be registered with the OAuth provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The *Resource Owner ID* (if provided) is registered with the OAuth provider.
```

> * The full *Callback Path* must be registered with the OAuth provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The full *Callback Path* is registered with the OAuth provider.
```

. Enter your username, password, and other credentials that the OAuth provider accepts, such as 2FA requests. If the authentication is successful, the OAuth provider might ask permission for the application to access your account. This typically occurs the first time you authenticate.
. Once the OAuth provider authenticates the user and authorizes access to the connector, the user's web browser is redirected to the callback URL that is registered with the OAuth provider, for example, `\http://localhost:8080/callback`.
+

> Ensure that the user running the flow has access to that server and endpoint, otherwise the authorization approval does not reach the connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the user running the flow has access to that server and endpoint; otherwise, the authorization approval will not reach the connector.
```

Reviewer: What server is this referring to?

This is a case where I made it future tense. The "does not reach" sounds wrong to me, but feel free to disagree.

+

> You can use `localhost` for testing locally, but you cannot use `localhost` for production environments and cloud deployment, for example, if your connector application is running on `\http://my.server.com`, you must specify the *External Callback Url* field with the `\http://my.server.com/callback` value. The `\http://my.server.com/callback` URL must also be registered with the OAuth provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `localhost` for testing locally, but you cannot use `localhost` for production environments and cloud deployment. For example, if your connector app is running on `\http://my.server.com`, you must specify the *External Callback Url* field with the `\http://my.server.com/callback` value. The `\http://my.server.com/callback` URL must also be registered with the OAuth provider.
```

> . Once the user's browser successfully reaches the callback URL, the connector obtains an authorization code that is automatically exchanged for an access token using the URL configured in the *Access Token URL* field. This token is long-lived and is automatically refreshed by the connector indefinitely (if the OAuth provider allows so).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Once the user's browser successfully reaches the callback URL, the connector obtains an authorization code that is automatically exchanged for an access token using the URL configured in the *Access Token URL* field. This token is long-lived and is automatically refreshed by the connector indefinitely (if allowed by the OAuth provider).
```

> The connector is now fully authorized and can use any service that accepts its new access token issued by the OAuth provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector is now fully authorized and can use any service that accepts the new access token issued by the OAuth provider.
```

== Example: How to Configure OAuth 2.0 For Gmail Connector

The following example shows how to configure OAuth 2.0 for Gmail Connector.

=== Configuring the OAuth Provider

To configure the OAuth provider for Gmail Connector, you can use Google Cloud Console. The following steps show how to configure the OAuth provider:

NOTE: If you haven't enabled the Gmail API previously, you must create a new project and enable the Gmail API in the *Enabled APIs & Services* menu section.

> . Add a new client (your connector application) to Google OAuth 2.0. To do so, navigate to *APIs & Services > Credentials > Create Credentials > OAuth Client ID*.

Reviewer: Global: we usually use "app" instead of "application" when referring to a Mule app.

Reviewer: Does the second sentence and steps 2-6 apply to adding a new client to Google OAuth 2.0? If so, the first sentence should be a lead-in to the list and not part of it.

Reviewer 2: nope, it is its own step

> . Create a new *Web Application*.

Reviewer: I would say "Create a new web application" since that is what you are doing. If you want to mention the field, you could say something like this, if it's applicable: 

"Create a new web application by using the *Web Application* field.

. Enter a name, for example, `OAuthDemoApp`.

> . Add the following URL to the *Authorized redirect URIs*: `\http://127.0.0.1:8080/callback`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the following URL to the *Authorized redirect URIs* field: `\http://127.0.0.1:8080/callback`.
```

. Click *Create* and copy the new client ID and client secret for later use.
. Click *OK*.

> === Configuring the Connector

Reviewer: This pom file is for configuring the connector using XML. This piece should probably come after you talk about the GUI (just like we do in our Studio topic).

> The following steps show how to configure the connector with OAuth 2.0:

Reviewer: This example is for configuring the connector using XML. Shouldn't we also show how to do this in the GUI?

. Add the following dependency into your pom.xml.
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>mule4-gmail-connector</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.5</version>
    <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

> . Configure the OAuth 2.0 authorization code. Create a new Gmail Connector connection and use the client ID and the client secret from the previous section as your *Consumer Key* and *Consumer Secret* respectively. You can leave the *Resource Owner ID* field empty.

Reviewer: I know lot of people do this, but here you are not really talking about fields, so I suggest:
..."as your consumer key and consumer secret, respectively."

Reviewer 2: these ones are for fields

+

> NOTE: Gmail Connector comes with pre-filled values for *Authorization URL*, *Access Token URL*, and *Scopes*, so no further action is required. However, if you are setting up a different connector that uses a third-party OAuth provider such as Okta or Ping, you must use their respective *Authorization URL*, *Access Token URL*, and *Scopes*.

Reviewer: Another nit of mine to make the writing more precise: "Gmail Connector comes with pre-filled values for the *Authorization URL*, *Access Token URL*, and *Scopes* fields,..."
Same comment globally when you are referring to fields.

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<gmail:config name="Gmail_Connector_Config" >
    <gmail:oauth2c-connection >
        <gmail:oauth-authorization-code consumerKey="YOUR_CLIENT_ID" consumerSecret="YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET" />
        <gmail:oauth-callback-config listenerConfig="HTTP_Listener_config" callbackPath="callback" authorizePath="authorize"/>
    </gmail:oauth2c-connection>
</gmail:config>
----
+
. Run the application.

=== Performing the OAuth Dance

Perform the OAuth dance and authorize your application to access your Gmail account via the connector. The following steps show how to perform the OAuth dance:

. In your browser, navigate to the path specified in the *Authorize Path* field to begin the OAuth dance. In this example, the path is `\http://localhost:8080/authorize`. If everything is configured correctly, you will see a Google Authentication screen in which you select your user account and give permission to the app to access your account. Google shows a list of permissions that require approval, for example:
+
image::intro-config-oauth2-gmail-permissions.png[Window that asks the user permission for Gmail to access their account]
+

> NOTE: These permissions are dependent on the *Scopes* field configured in the Gmail Connector connection configuration. You can accept the defaults, but if you want to limit the access, you can remove the unwanted scopes. For example, remove the `\https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send` scope to disallow the connector from sending new emails from your account, however, doing so also limits connector functionality, such as the *Send Message* or the *Send Draft* operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: These permissions are dependent on the *Scopes* field configured in the Gmail Connector connection configuration. You can accept the defaults, but if you want to limit the access, you can remove the unwanted scopes. For example, remove the `\https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send` scope to disallow the connector from sending new emails from your account, however, doing so limits connector functionality, such as the ability to use the *Send Message* or *Send Draft* operations.
```

+

> . Click *Allow*. You are now redirected to `\http://127.0.0.1:8080/callback`, which is the redirect URI that you configured in the OAuth provider and is open in the connector configuration. If the OAuth dance is successful, a `Successfully retrieved access token` message shows up on the browser, which means the connector is now fully authorized and ready to use your Gmail account.

Reviewer: "Mule runtime directs you..." to instead of "You are now redirected to", if it is Mule runtime doing this action.

Reviewer 2: will verify with dev

+
You do not need to authorize the application again unless you restart Anypoint Studio or the access token expires. Access tokens are automatically refreshed if the refresh token flow is enabled in your OAuth provider. Google supports this automatically, so your tokens are refreshed indefinitely.
+
NOTE: If you want your authorization to persist over restarts, you can configure an object store in the Gmail Connector connection configuration.

=== Testing the Connector

> Now that your connector is functional and authorized, you can test out a flow using the connector. The following steps show how to retrieve some of your emails:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that your connector is functional and authorized, you can test a flow using the connector. The following steps show how to retrieve some of your emails:
```

. Drag an *HTTP Listener* to the flow. Set *Path* to `/messages`.

> . Drag the *List Messages* operation to the flow. The only required field is *User Id*, which is the user's email address that you want to access, for example, this is useful for corporate email servers with multiple users registered under one company account. Set *User Id* to `me` to retrieve emails from your main account directly. You can also set *Max Results* to a lower number if you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag the *List Messages* operation to the flow. The only required field is *User Id*, which contains the user's email address that you want to access. For example, this is useful for corporate email servers with multiple users registered under one company account. Set *User Id* to `me` to retrieve emails from your main account directly. You can also set *Max Results* to a lower number.
```

| External Callback Url | String | Full, publicly accessible URL on your server in which the user's browser is redirected to when authorization is successful with the OAuth provider. This field enables you to override the *Callback path* field, for example, `\http://my.server.com/callback`. | |
|===

== OAuth 2.0 Flow Overview

> Anypoint Connectors use the Authorization Code Grant flow for their OAuth 2.0 dance. The following steps show how a typical flow for configuring OAuth 2.0 for a connector:

Author: Typo: `typical flow for configuring OAuth 2.0 for a connector`

```suggestion
Anypoint Connectors use the Authorization Code Grant flow for their OAuth 2.0 dance. The following steps show how a typical OAuth 2.0 flow looks like for a connector
```

* The full *Callback Path* must be registered with the OAuth provider.
. Enter your username, password, and other credentials that the OAuth provider accepts, such as 2FA requests. If the authentication is successful, the OAuth provider might ask permission for the application to access your account. This typically occurs the first time you authenticate.
. Once the OAuth provider authenticates the user and authorizes access to the connector, the user's web browser is redirected to the callback URL that is registered with the OAuth provider, for example, `\http://localhost:8080/callback`.
+
Ensure that the user running the flow has access to that server and endpoint, otherwise the authorization approval does not reach the connector.
+
You can use `localhost` for testing locally, but you cannot use `localhost` for production environments and cloud deployment, for example, if your connector application is running on `\http://my.server.com`, you must specify the *External Callback Url* field with the `\http://my.server.com/callback` value. The `\http://my.server.com/callback` URL must also be registered with the OAuth provider.

> . Once the user's browser successfully reaches the callback URL, the connector obtains an authorization code that is automatically exchanged for an access token using the URL configured in the *Access Token URL* field. This token is long-lived and is automatically refreshed by the connector indefinitely (if the OAuth provider allows).

Author: ```suggestion
. Once the user's browser successfully reaches the callback URL, the connector obtains an authorization code that is automatically exchanged for an access token using the URL configured in the *Access Token URL* field. This token is long-lived and is automatically refreshed by the connector indefinitely (if the OAuth provider allows it).
```

Perform the OAuth dance and authorize your app to access your Gmail account via the connector. The following steps show how to perform the OAuth dance:

. In your browser, navigate to the path specified in the *Authorize Path* field to begin the OAuth dance. In this example, the path is `\http://localhost:8080/authorize`. If everything is configured correctly, you will see a Google Authentication screen in which you select your user account and give permission to the app to access your account. Google shows a list of permissions that require approval, for example:
+
image::intro-config-oauth2-gmail-permissions.png[Window that asks the user permission for Gmail to access their account]
+
NOTE: These permissions are dependent on the *Scopes* field configured in the Gmail Connector connection configuration. You can accept the defaults, but if you want to limit the access, you can remove the unwanted scopes. For example, remove the `\https://www.googleapis.com/auth/gmail.send` scope to disallow the connector from sending new emails from your account, however, doing so limits connector functionality, such as the ability to use the *Send Message* or *Send Draft* operations.
+

> . Click *Allow*. Mule runtime directs you to `\http://127.0.0.1:8080/callback`, which is the redirect URI that you configured in the OAuth provider and is open in the connector configuration. If the OAuth dance is successful, a `Successfully retrieved access token` message shows up on the browser, which means the connector is now fully authorized and ready to use your Gmail account.

Author: It's not the mule runtime that redirects the user but the Identity Provider.
Also "redirects" is the correct technical term though this is not a big deal and most people will probably understand either of those.

```suggestion
. Click *Allow*. The Identity provider redirects you to `\http://127.0.0.1:8080/callback`, which is the redirect URI that you configured in the OAuth provider and is open in the connector configuration. If the OAuth dance is successful, a `Successfully retrieved access token` message shows up on the browser, which means the connector is now fully authorized and ready to use your Gmail account.
```
